General RULES
You can only become CT's by either joining on the first round or being placed on CT through the !guard queue. 
Breaking this rule will result in (swap/ctban/kick/ban)
Players may not talk over warden constantly. Breaking this rule will result in an extended (mute/silence/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
Do not disrespect/harass/threaten/flame any players.
Do not spam chat, voice, or radio commands.
Do not hack/exploit.
Do not cheat/ghost/glitch.
Do not apply other server rules to this server.
Do not advertise other gaming websites/servers.
Do not evade punishment.
Do not impersonate an admin or any player.
Do not expect admin to take any action for any situation without proof.
Do not request admins assistance in unnecessary situations; only rule breaking.
Do not encourage/antagonize rule breaking.
Do not mislead players with incorrect rules.
Do not abuse the vote (ban/kick/mute) system.
No racial slurs, including coded racism.
No scamming, offenders will be permanently banned.
Use English only in voice chat.
Cell Doors must be opened by 18:30. If cells are unopened at 18:29, then a Freeday will be initiated immediately. If cells continue to be closed for extended periods of times or constantly, CT's may be (slayed/swap/ctban/kick/ban).
No Detours and Delays are implied to be in effect at all times. But the possession of guns or grenades is not implied.
Freeday does not happen when cells are opened and closed again.
Fish-in-the-barrel type games is not allowed.

T Rules
Once a warden has died, T’s must freeze until orders are given or else you are rebelling.
T's who attack Guards are automatically rebelling. Any guard may ask a T to drop a gun.
T's in armory are automatically rebelling.
T's may not find loopholes in orders. If orders are unclear, T's may ask for a reworded order or an explanation of the order. Example: Warden Tells T's to stack on his bullets. T's may not stack on the bullets that are in his gun.
T's who constantly ask to delay or troll are subject to (slay/silence/kick/ban)
T's may ask for one repeat per order. Warden is required to only one repeat per order at the T's demand. Additional repeats can be made, but are not required.
The last T may type !lr for Last Request. If the final T was previously rebelling, any Last Request must be acknowledged.
Last Requests may not be used to kill CT's unfairly. Breaking this rule will result in a (slay/kick/ban)
Rules must be established in each LR. No party may break these rules or result in appropriate action from an admin.
T's whom rebel between LRs may be killed as if they were rebelling regularly.
he Final T may choose the Rebel option, where he may be killed as if he was a rebelling T.
Guards may not wander or roam the map away from the Warden unless searching for rebellious T's.


CT Rules
Guards may repeat for the warden if it is correct. Misinformation will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
Guards may not stay in armory past 19:20 (40 seconds) (Armory Camping). Breaking this rule will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
Guards may not give T's weapons of any sort (Weapon Planting). Breaking this rule will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
The Guard who is Last CT must give Last T LR.
Guards may only enter vents if they see a T go in the vent or by wardens permission.
Guards may not wander or roam the map away from the Warden unless searching for rebellious T's.
. Guards and Vents: Breaking any of these rules will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
a. Guards may not break vent doors unless there is no other way to leave the vent.
b. Guards may not camp in a vent or in the way of a vent unless they would be baiting.
c. Guards may kill any T in vents
Guards may not come within close distance to any T's. The distance is approximately 5 player models away (Baiting) T's who attack violating CT's should be pardoned. Killing a T while baiting will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban)
Guards may only kill T's that are rebelling or not following the Warden's Orders. 
Breaking this rule will result in a (slay/swap/ctban/kick/ban). (Freekilling)
Guards may not force T's to stay in a cell.
Guards must be with the warden at all times unless pursuing other activities such as rebels/getting health or ammo. (Do not abuse, you can and will be ctbanned).
Guards must give a 3 second warning to drop holstered weapons, and unholstered primaries are always KOS.
Wardens may not constitute games or orders that break any server rules. Example: A Warden can not order a CT to bait or gun plant.
Wardens may not give permission to the entirety of the map with the exception of Hide and Seek days.
Wardens must explain games prior to being played unless rules are evident.
Only Wardens may give pardons for rebellious T's
Wardens may not use text to give commands.
Wardens may not use consecutive "days".	Example: Warden A may not use a warday after Warden B used on the previous round.
Wardens may not revoke warden-initiated Freedays or Wardays.
Wardens may not use "jump restriction" commands in a row. Breaking this rule will result in a (slay/swap).
If no Guards's are willing to Warden, then a freeday may be declared by an admin accompanying an entire team swap.
Wardens can be established within the CT's to give orders to the T's through the !w chat command.



PRE-DEFINED RULES
Panda Freeday: Panda's crouch at all times may not left click, may not teleport, can not climb or jump unless getting to a CT. Pandas may stand up and AFK freeze if they are typing. Pandas may not carry guns, holstered or otherwise.
Zombie Freeday: Zombies walk at all times, may Section 7: Pre-defined Rules.
Gun toss: No crouching, no bhopping, no cheating, no admin power from anyone, CT's first, no interference from other players.
Shot for Shot: Stay on the wall at all times, no healing, no hiding, no interference from other players.
Lava Freeday: T's may only be on main cell floor if they are on a spray, and may left or right click. Any other areas of the map outside of the main cell floor such as Soccer, Surf, Climb, etc. does not count as main cell floor, and T's may run around freely in those areas.
Warday: CT's may kill any T's inside warzone. CT's may kill T's that are outside if they are red or have a gun of any type. CT's may NOT kill T's while outside of the warzone.

ADMIN RULES

1. Do not punish a party without proper reasoning.
2. Server rules require warnings.
3. Admins may mute the entire server to quell mass mic spamming.
4. Admins are not to remove existing punishments on other players without proper reasoning.
5. Admins will not have in-game squabbling. Any issues can be resolved in chat or the forums.
6. Admins cannot punish (slay, mute, etc) another admin for ANY reason and will result in the removal of your admin.
7. Do not force map changes unless the current map is bugged or broken.
8. Do not use admin abilities to adversely affect players without consensus from that player or the server, with the exception of punishments.